We continue our sermon series, Manifest, this week, and this week we focus on our calling.
How do we manifest the calling in our life to do and to be the people that God has called us to do and to be?
We start today in the Old Testament lesson in 1 Samuel.
We are in 1 Samuel chapter three.
versus one through, my notes just went out.
Sorry y'all.
First Samuel chapter three versus one through 10.
I'm reading from the new revised standard version updated edition.
Now the boy Samuel was ministering to the Lord under Eli.
The word of the Lord was rare in those days.
Visions were not widespread.
At that time, Eli, whose eyesight had begun to grow dim so that he could not see, was lying down in his room.
The lamp of God had not yet gone out and Samuel was lying down in the temple of the Lord where the Ark of God was.
Then the Lord called Samuel, Samuel.
And he said, here I am.
And ran to Eli and said, here I am.
You called for me.
But he said, I did not call you.
Lie down again.
So Samuel went and lay down.
The Lord called again, Samuel.
Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, here I am for you called me.
But he said, I did not call you my son, lie down again.
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord.
And the word of the Lord had not yet been revealed to him.
The Lord called Samuel again a third time.
And he got up and went to Eli and said, here I am for you called me.
Then Eli perceived that the Lord was calling the boy.
Therefore Eli said to Samuel, go lie down.
And if he calls you, you shall say, speak Lord for your servant is listening.
So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
Now the word of the Lord came and stood there calling as before, Samuel, Samuel.
And Samuel said, Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening.
Please stand for the reading of the gospel in John chapter one.
I'm going to actually start in verse 35.
John chapter one versus verse 35.
The next day, John was again standing with two of his disciples as he watched Jesus.
He watched Jesus go by and he exclaimed, look, here is the Lamb of God.
The two disciples heard him say this and they followed Jesus.
When Jesus turned and saw them following, he said to them, what are you looking for?
They said to him, Rabbi, which translated means teacher.
Where are you staying?
He said to them, come and see.
They came and saw where he was staying and they remained with him for the afternoon.
It was about four o'clock in the afternoon.
One of the two heard John speak and followed him was Andrew Simon Peters brother.
He first found his brother Simon and said to him, we have found the Messiah, which is translated anointed.
He brought Simon to Jesus who looked at him and said, you are Simon, son of John, you are to be called.
Peter.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Consecrate me now to thy service Lord by the power of grace divine.
Let my soul look up with a steadfast hope and my will be lost in dine.
Draw us nearer, nearer, nearer, blessed Lord, because we have come to hear a word from you.
Pour out a fresh on us.
Speak, Lord, for your servants are listening.
This is our prayer.
In the name of Jesus, the Christ we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
My senior year in college was going to a young adult revival.
Some of you have heard this story before.
It was a reunion of sorts for the young adult ministry at my home church at Central United Methodist Church in Atlanta.
People came from all over the place because in the early 90s, the late 90s, Central was known for its ministries with children and youth and young adults and Bible studies.
And we went to the revival and the preacher was the Reverend Dr. Candice Lewis, who is now the president of Gammon Theological Seminary.
She was our youth pastor then.
And she preached that night, the Isaiah chapter six, which says, I have seen the Lord and his train filled the temple and the seraphim and the angels were all around.
And God put the charcoal to Isaiah's mouth and Isaiah said, here am I, send me.
I don't know about you, but church kids in the 90s really like to eat.
You heard it, right?
They like to eat.
So all we did was go to church and go eat.
That's all we did.
And so everybody was going to the Waffle House after that revival that night.
But the Lord just kept tugging me home.
I went home and I was living in our family house by myself at that time.
And I was supposed to take the L set the next day.
Then in the middle of the night, I heard a voice.
And I was startled by it because I knew I was the only one in the house.
The alarm hadn't gone off.
Nobody could be around, but it was pitch black dark.
And I heard, Jasmine, that's not what I told you to do.
I got up, turned all the lights on in the house.
Walked around, looked outside.
This was way before cameras.
Okay, nobody's here.
Let me go back to sleep.
Jasmine, that is not what I told you to do.
The LSAT books were all on my bed, so I closed them and got up and got something to drink, Ms. Ruby, and I was like, I must be losing my mind.
The third time the Lord said, Jasmine, you know who is speaking and that is not what I told you to do.
Then the tears came and more tears and more tears and when day came, I just sat there and I missed the LSATs.
And I pulled up seminary applications and I started to apply.
Every single person on this planet has a calling.
Every single person on this planet is called to something you were created for a purpose and that purpose is called your calling.
And people receive knowledge of their calling in different ways.
Every time I tell my call story, Mr. Nara, somebody looks at me like I'm crazy because I tell them that I audibly heard the Lord, that I heard the voice of God say, Jasmine, you know you're not supposed to be going to law school.
You're supposed to be going to seminary.
God calls us and that calling creates curiosity.
You see, when God calls us, sometimes people, you know, they're like, that couldn't have been God, right?
That could have been God because that's just crazy.
Like that thing is so big that without God is bound to fail.
Or that thing would change my life so significantly.
I could not live my life the way I'm living it right now.
But calling doesn't let up.
It doesn't let go.
And so you get called and pulled through curiosity into trying to find out more about that thing that won't let you go, more about the calling on your life, more about the purpose in your life because you are here for a reason.
There is no waste of people on this planet.
Everyone is created by God with a purpose for a reason.
The reason it's calling.
Curiosity compels us to be drawn to our calling.
How many of you spend significant amount of time on the internet scrolling
Something's going through the choir right now.
Maybe it's the spirit of God.
And we scroll through what's called an algorithm.
an algorithm and it is AI that says these are the things you like and these are the things that you look at frequently or that your friends look at frequently.
So we're going to show you all the same things.
This is why people get caught up in what we call an echo chamber.
We hear the same thing over and over again because the algorithms only show us stuff that they think we will stop and like and resonate with.
So my social media feed might be a world away from your social media feed.
But let me tell you how God uses social media feeds to show you your calling.
What is the thing you spend most time on?
What do you spend the most time in?
What occupies your mind?
What brings you joy every time you think about it?
Because there is a difference between skill and talent.
Skill is something that's embedded in you, and you can learn and perfect a skill.
Skills are teachable.
Skills you learn through school and through other people.
Like, I like crafting.
It's a skill.
The t-shirts I made when I first started crafting are very different from the t-shirts I make now.
You perfect it by doing it.
But talent is God-given.
You come here with it.
Some people can move their fingers on the piano in a way that is otherworldly.
Some people sing a song in a way that is out of this world.
Some people can type.
Some people can give.
Some people, you came here with a talent.
But the thing is, we spend most of our time in skills and not in talent.
And we can only discover our calling when skills meet talent.
You'll remember many years ago Rick Warren had a series called The Purpose Driven Life.
Everybody everywhere was all about the purpose driven life.
Even people who didn't want anything to do with God.
Everybody had a book on their desk or the tape in their car or CD in their car.
Everybody was talking about the purpose driven life.
What's your purpose?
We must live in a place of curiosity in order to live our calling.
Write that down.
Those of you who are taking notes, we must live in a place of curiosity in order to live out our calling because calling evolves.
It does not change, but it evolves because you come here with your call.
Calling evolves.
So one day, God has called me to be in ministry.
One day I might be preaching, but the next day I might be teaching, and in the next season I might be training others.
And there are different ways to live out your call because it evolves.
But you only get there through curiosity.
God calls ordinary people into divine purpose.
And calling, let's get this straight, calling is not about a job.
There are a whole lot of people who work a job that doesn't have anything to do with their calling.
How do we know?
Have you ever gone into a place of customer service, asked a question, and somebody barks at you?
That's a job, not a calling.
But there are some people who are called to this.
There are people in customer service who revel in helping you along the way.
That is a calling.
Your job may or may not have anything to do with your calling.
But if your job aligns with your calling, you are a much happier person.
When we get to Samuel, we understand that Hannah, the mother of Samuel, has prayed for this child, prayed and prayed.
She was barren and she was the butt of the jokes in her family.
And she prayed, God, give me this child.
God, give me this child.
And if you give me this child, I'll give him back to you.
And so Samuel,
When he was born, he was given back to the temple and he lived there and he spent all his days with Eli.
Eli was a priest and Eli loved God, but Eli's sons, they didn't quite like to follow the rules.
And at that time it was lineage.
It was the family business.
You did whatever your family did.
So his sons should have been the next priest.
But they disobeyed God.
And they disobeyed God.
And they ignored God.
They ignored God when God spoke.
And so Eli trained Samuel to become the next priest.
One night, Samuel was sleeping, but he heard his name called.
I imagine he had that indescribable feeling that I had when God called my name.
And he went to Samuel because he thought that God was Samuel.
He said, here I am.
And Eli said, I didn't call you go back to sleep.
And then again,
He heard his name and Samuel went to Eli and Eli said, I did not call you.
Go back to sleep.
And the third time Samuel said, oh, I know this.
Go back to your bed.
And when you hear your name, say here I am.
Send me.
Speak to me.
At the very beginning of the scriptures as in those days, people didn't hear from God very much.
Did you miss?
Did you hear that in the scriptures morning in those days?
You didn't hear from God very much.
And yet here we are learning that God is still speaking.
But God is speaking to the obedient.
God is speaking to the people whom God has called for such a time as this and who have a willingness to listen.
This is not very different from the world we live in right now.
People say to me all the time, how do I know that's my calling?
How do I know that that is my purpose?
How do I know that it is God speaking to me?
And I tell them, I cannot describe for you the voice of God.
But if you will say, Lord, here I am speak to me, the Lord will speak to you.
And the Lord will speak to you in multiple ways.
And the Lord will speak to you in a way that you can hear a way that you can understand and a way that you can live.
But first we have to be willing vessels.
You can't walk around while everything is super loud and everything is pulling you in a thousand directions and expect to hear from the Lord over and over again in the Bible.
The Lord speaks in the quiet at night when there's nothing to pay attention to but God.
So when people ask me, I said, when's the last time you've gotten still in the presence of God?
When's the last time you got quiet?
When's the last time you skipped Waffle House with all your friends so you could go and just be with God?
God calls ordinary people into divine purpose.
Stemule was just a kid.
He was a kid who did not yet know all he needed to know about God.
And what God said to Samuel was, Eli's sons have been so disobedient that I will not allow them to become the priest.
You are the next priest.
I created you for this.
Calling will disrupt your plans so that you can get in God's will.
Calling will interrupt what you think you're going to do so that you can be on task with God.
You don't want to be out of step with God because that creates chaos in your life.
You're created with a calling.
Calling creates curiosity and calling is relentless.
You won't get any rest.
until you answer God's call.
If you're feeling unsettled these days, if you are feeling as if something just won't get right or something is happening all the time or things are just wrong, there's something weird in the atmosphere, that is God getting your attention and saying, get off the street that you're on and get on my street.
God told me when God called me, He said, Jasmine, you'll be a preacher.
You can either do it the easy way or you can do it the hard way.
It's up to you.
And I knew the hard way because I'd seen my mom and my dad mentor and coach folks who had a call to ministry in their lives, but didn't want to disrupt the plans that they already had.
And so they end up 50, 60, 70, 80 years old having to answer the call to ministry and learning and doing that that they finally had peace.
They didn't have to come up on the rough side of the mountain.
They chose to come up on the rough side of the mountain.
And so many people in this world right now spend their time on the rough side of the mountain because we will not answer the call of God in our lives.
Calling is relentless because you came here with it and it makes you curious and it makes you need to know what is God calling me for?
Why am I here?
What is my purpose in this life?
We're created with a calling.
Calling creates curiosity.
Calling is not about a job.
It's about a purpose.
Calling is relentless.
Calling evolves, but does it change?
When the disciples met Jesus, they'd heard about Him.
And when they heard about Him, they became curious, Ms. Ruby.
So curious that they started following Him around.
Now, if somebody's following me around, I'm probably going to call the police and say I'm being stalked.
But when they were following Jesus around, Jesus noticed that they were following him and he said, what are you looking for?
And they said, Rabbi, they said, teacher, we are looking for you.
Where are you staying?
And Jesus said, come and see.
Your calling will help somebody else to their calling.
Your calling will equip somebody else in their calling.
You living in your call will make sure that somebody else is living into their call.
And when you live into your calling, you live into your calling, you live into your calling, you live into your calling, you live into your calling, you live into your call, and you live into your call, then we have the kingdom of God on earth.
And we don't have to worry about all this craziness that's breaking
in this world.
We have chaos because people are not living into their calling.
We have lack because people are not living into their calling.
Things don't get done in the church and in the world because people are not living into their calling.
They've settled for where they are and have abdicated abundant life even though Jesus went to the cross with your name on it.
You've given up and I'm here today to tell you that God says enough.
God says stop running.
God says stop trying something else.
God says just get in line with me.
And you won't have to worry about anything else.
You might have gotten laid off.
This is an opportunity.
for you to live into your calling.
You may have quit that job.
This is an opportunity for you to live into your calling.
Somebody is asking you to do something new and something different.
This is an opportunity.
A God-given opportunity to live into the will of God for your life.
Calling is not to be ignored.
Because it's not about you.
It's about abundant life for all.
It's selfish of you not to lean into your calling.
Because you're going to disrupt somebody else's calling.
Because every piece works together.
It's like a puzzle.
Every single piece has to be in its place in order for the puzzle to come to being.
But you're too busy.
You don't know how.
You think you won't be able to pay your bills.
Whatever excuse you have is not a big enough excuse to ignore God's calling in your life.
Your calling creates love, hope, and justice in this world.
We were created to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all our mind, all our soul and all our strength and to love our neighbors.
And yet some of us can't love ourselves because we're living outside of our calling.
Calling is so important that you will not have peace.
until you're living in your calling.
Calling is so important that God is waiting, ready to give you what you need in this life.
But you're so stuck on having to be in control that you are missing out on the best of life.
You go into that job every day, it's wearing you out and it's going to kill you because you are not supposed to be there.
Things don't get done in the church.
I'm saying it again because people won't step into their calling.
They won't volunteer.
They won't show up because you need to know God in a significant way in order to know your calling.
But it takes time.
It takes time.
And it takes somebody else who is already in that calling to walk with you.
This is Martin Luther King weekend.
And Dr. King reminds us over and over again that we are inextricably linked together.
What affects one affects all.
And it's the same with calling.
Because if my great uncle and my grandfather did not answer their call to ministry, then maybe my mom and dad wouldn't have answered their call to ministry.
And then maybe I would not have answered my call to ministry.
And we would have been on the real rough side of the mountain, trying to figure out why life was not the way that God said it would be.
Evil in this world.
Evil is in this world because we are disobedient, because we will not hear the voice of the Lord.
Sin is anything that separates us or seeks to separate us from God.
And that sin turns to evil.
And we have things like shootings and robberies and murders and we're trying to kick people out of the country and all these things that are happening in our lives right now because we will not answer the call of God on our lives.
Eli told Samuel,
When you hear the Lord, tell him that you're listening.
When you hear the Lord, tell him that you know that it's the Lord.
When you see Jesus, follow him.
When you see Jesus,
inquire about what it is that makes Jesus Jesus.
Peter and his brother became the first disciples and they literally went on to transform the world.
And they did it together.
Not by themselves.
I want you to hear that even Jesus did not transform the world by himself.
It takes a team.
It takes at least two, the Bible says, or two or more gathered in his name.
There he is in its midst.
So I wonder today, what is your calling?
I wonder what is your calling and how are you putting it to work?
If you want peace in your life,
Honey, it's time to get into calling.
If you want joy in your life, listen for the voice of God to speak to say, this is what you need to do.
And if you know that, you know that, you know that you're not in the right place in your life right now, ask God to show you how to manifest your calling.
God is helping us to become the people that we need to be.
It's up to us to answer.
It is well with my soul.